Add getPathData and setPathData methods (#38730)
mdn/content: files/en-us/web/api/svgpathelement/getpathdata/index.md

---
title: "SVGPathElement: getPathData() method"
short-title: getPathData()
slug: Web/API/SVGPathElement/getPathData
page-type: web-api-instance-method
browser-compat: api.SVGPathElement.getPathData
---

{{APIRef("SVG")}}

The **`SVGPathElement.getPathData()`** method returns the sequence of path segments that corresponds to the path data, optionally normalizing the values and segment types.

## Syntax

```js-nolint
getPathData()
getPathData(options)
```

### Parameters

- `options` {{optional_inline}}

  - : An optional object for controlling aspects of the path data retrieval process. This object may contain the following properties:

    - `normalize` {{optional_inline}}

>       - : A boolean value indicating whether the returned sequence of path segments is converted to the base set of absolute commands (`'M'`, `'L'`, `'C'` and `'Z'`), with the values adjusted accordingly.

Reviewer: Is there a good link for these base set of absolute commands? We should link because I have no idea what those are, and nor will most readers.

Author: Good point, added a link

### Return value

> The sequence of path segments corresponding to the path data. If no valid path data exists, returns an empty sequence.

Reviewer: What does each segment look like? i..e what is its type?

Author: Done, thanks

> 

Reviewer: LIve example please.

Author: Added, thanks

---
title: "SVGPathElement: getPathData() method"
short-title: getPathData()
slug: Web/API/SVGPathElement/getPathData
page-type: web-api-instance-method
browser-compat: api.SVGPathElement.getPathData
---

{{APIRef("SVG")}}

The **`SVGPathElement.getPathData()`** method returns the sequence of path segments that corresponds to the path data, optionally normalizing the values and segment types.

## Syntax

```js-nolint
getPathData()
getPathData(options)
```

### Parameters

- `options` {{optional_inline}}

  - : An optional object for controlling aspects of the path data retrieval process. This object may contain the following properties:

    - `normalize` {{optional_inline}}
      - : A boolean value indicating whether the returned sequence of path segments is converted to the base set of [absolute commands](/en-US/docs/Web/SVG/Reference/Attribute/d#path_commands) (`'M'`, `'L'`, `'C'` and `'Z'`), with the values adjusted accordingly.

### Return value

> An array of path segments corresponding to the path data. If no valid path data exists, returns an empty sequence.

Reviewer: So this is obviously better, but what is the format of a path segment? (you show below, but the "Return value" is supposed to be canonical. So assuming I am correct:

```suggestion
An array of path segments corresponding to the path data. If no valid path data exists, returns an empty sequence.

Each path segment is an object with the following properties:

-  `type`
  - : A [path commands](/en-US/docs/Web/SVG/Reference/Attribute/d#path_commands).
     If [`options.normalize`](/en-US/docs/Web/API/SVGPathElement/getPathData#normalize) is true this will be one of the the absolute commands: `'M'`, `'L'`, `'C'` and `'Z'`.
-  `values`
  - : An array or value containing the parameters for the corresponding command. 
```

> ## Example
> 
> Consider the following `<path>` element, drawing a square:

Reviewer: FYI The API template does it like this

```suggestion
## Examples

### Get path data

Consider the following `<path>` element, drawing a square:
```

## Syntax

```js-nolint
getPathData()
getPathData(options)
```

### Parameters

- `options` {{optional_inline}}

  - : An optional object for controlling aspects of the path data retrieval process. This object may contain the following properties:

    - `normalize` {{optional_inline}}
      - : A boolean value indicating whether the returned sequence of path segments is converted to the base set of [absolute commands](/en-US/docs/Web/SVG/Reference/Attribute/d#path_commands) (`'M'`, `'L'`, `'C'` and `'Z'`), with the values adjusted accordingly.

### Return value

An array of path segments corresponding to the path data. If no valid path data exists, returns an empty sequence.

## Examples

### Get path data

Consider the following `<path>` element, drawing a square:

```xml
<svg xmlns="http://www.w3.org/2000/svg" width="64" height="64">
  <path d="M0,0 h64 v64 h-64 z" />
</svg>
```

The `getPathData()` method will return an array with the raw path data, the same as it's set in the `d` attribute. With the `normalize: true` option set, it will return path data normalized to the base set of path commands:

> ```js

Reviewer: Good example. Any reason not to make it live? We've standardized the logging approach on screen

Author: > Any reason not to make it live?

I don’t think anyone would want to manually write SVG path data and see what’s logged. It’s not something you’d manually write anyway. I think a static example should be more than enough here.

Reviewer: FWIW I always write live examples if I can - for a start it proves they work, and it is very "real". That said, this is fine.
